docs/src/docs/contributing/workflow.mdx, before:

---
title: Contributing Workflow
---

# Contributing

By participating to this project, you agree to abide our [code of
conduct](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Setup your machine

`golangci-lint` is written in [Go](https://golang.org/).

Prerequisites:

- `make`
- [Go 1.13+](https://golang.org/doc/install)

Fork and clone [golangci-lint](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint) repository.

A good way of making sure everything is all right is running the following:

```bash
make build
./golangci-lint run -v
```

## Test your change

When you are satisfied with the changes, we suggest you run:

```bash
$ make test
```

Which runs all the linters and tests.

## Submit a pull request

Push your branch to your `golangci-lint` fork and open a pull request against the
`master` branch.

## Pull request checks

First, please, accept [CLA](https://gist.github.com/jirfag/26a39fd375da84b2d5ad4296fecb0668) - [cla assistant](https://cla-assistant.io/) will
make a comment on the pull request about it.

Also, we run a few checks in CI by using GitHub actions, you can see them [here](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/blob/master/.github/workflows/pr.yml).

## New releases

First, see [our versioning policy](/usage/install/#versioning-policy).

To make a new release create a tag `vx.y.z`. Don't forget to add zero patch version for a new minor release, e.g. `v1.99.0`.
A GitHub action [workflow](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/blob/master/.github/workflows/tag.yml) will start building and publishing release after that.

After making a release you need to update:

1. GitHub [action config](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/blob/master/assets/github-action-config.json) by running:

```bash
make assets/github-action-config.json
```

2. The latest version in documentation on our website:

```bash
make expand_website_templates
```

Commit message:

bump gomodguard version (#1140)
* bump gomodguard version which adds a new feature to allow blocking modules based on version constraints

* add description why you may want to use gomodguard over depguard, updated example config and add a section the contributor doc page to remind people to update the example config

docs/src/docs/contributing/workflow.mdx, after:

---
title: Contributing Workflow
---

# Contributing

By participating to this project, you agree to abide our [code of
conduct](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Setup your machine

`golangci-lint` is written in [Go](https://golang.org/).

Prerequisites:

- `make`
- [Go 1.13+](https://golang.org/doc/install)

Fork and clone [golangci-lint](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint) repository.

A good way of making sure everything is all right is running the following:

```bash
make build
./golangci-lint run -v
```

## Test your change

When you are satisfied with the changes, we suggest you run:

```bash
$ make test
```

Which runs all the linters and tests.

## Create or update parameters for docs

Add your new or updated parameters to `.golangci.example.yml` so they will be shown in the docs

## Submit a pull request

Push your branch to your `golangci-lint` fork and open a pull request against the
`master` branch.

## Pull request checks

First, please, accept [CLA](https://gist.github.com/jirfag/26a39fd375da84b2d5ad4296fecb0668) - [cla assistant](https://cla-assistant.io/) will
make a comment on the pull request about it.

Also, we run a few checks in CI by using GitHub actions, you can see them [here](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/blob/master/.github/workflows/pr.yml).

## New releases

First, see [our versioning policy](/usage/install/#versioning-policy).

To make a new release create a tag `vx.y.z`. Don't forget to add zero patch version for a new minor release, e.g. `v1.99.0`.
A GitHub action [workflow](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/blob/master/.github/workflows/tag.yml) will start building and publishing release after that.

After making a release you need to update:

1. GitHub [action config](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/blob/master/assets/github-action-config.json) by running:

```bash
make assets/github-action-config.json
```

2. The latest version in documentation on our website:

```bash
make expand_website_templates
```
