docs/src/docs/usage/configuration.mdx, before:

---
title: Configuration
---

The config file has lower priority than command-line options. If the same bool/string/int option is provided on the command-line
and in the config file, the option from command-line will be used.
Slice options (e.g. list of enabled/disabled linters) are combined from the command-line and config file.

To see a list of enabled by your configuration linters:

```sh
golangci-lint linters
```

## Command-Line Options

```sh
golangci-lint run -h
{.RunHelpText}
```

When the `--cpu-profile-path` or `--mem-profile-path` arguments are specified, `golangci-lint` writes runtime profiling data
in the format expected by the [pprof](https://github.com/google/pprof) visualization tool.

When the `--trace-path` argument is specified, `golangci-lint` writes runtime tracing data in the format expected by
the `go tool trace` command and visualization tool.

## Config File

GolangCI-Lint looks for config files in the following paths from the current working directory:

- `.golangci.yml`
- `.golangci.yaml`
- `.golangci.toml`
- `.golangci.json`

GolangCI-Lint also searches for config files in all directories from the directory of the first analyzed path up to the root.
If no configuration file has been found, GolangCI-Lint will try to find one in your home directory.
To see which config file is being used and where it was sourced from run golangci-lint with `-v` option.

Config options inside the file are identical to command-line options.
You can configure specific linters' options only within the config file (not the command-line).

There is a [`.golangci.example.yml`](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/blob/master/.golangci.example.yml) example
config file with all supported options, their description and default value:

```yaml
{ .GolangciYamlExample }
```

## Cache

GolangCI-Lint stores its cache in the [default user cache directory](https://golang.org/pkg/os/#UserCacheDir).

You can override the default cache directory with the environment variable `GOLANGCI_LINT_CACHE`; the path must be absolute.

Commit message:

docs: split configuration page into multiple sections (#2484)

docs/src/docs/usage/configuration.mdx, after:

---
title: Configuration
---

The config file has lower priority than command-line options. If the same bool/string/int option is provided on the command-line
and in the config file, the option from command-line will be used.
Slice options (e.g. list of enabled/disabled linters) are combined from the command-line and config file.

To see a list of enabled by your configuration linters:

```sh
golangci-lint linters
```

## Config File

GolangCI-Lint looks for config files in the following paths from the current working directory:

- `.golangci.yml`
- `.golangci.yaml`
- `.golangci.toml`
- `.golangci.json`

GolangCI-Lint also searches for config files in all directories from the directory of the first analyzed path up to the root.
If no configuration file has been found, GolangCI-Lint will try to find one in your home directory.
To see which config file is being used and where it was sourced from run golangci-lint with `-v` option.

Config options inside the file are identical to command-line options.
You can configure specific linters' options only within the config file (not the command-line).

There is a [`.golangci.example.yml`](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/blob/master/.golangci.example.yml) file with all supported options, their description, and default values.
This file is a neither a working example nor recommended configuration, it's just a reference to display all the configuration options.

{ .ConfigurationExample }

## Command-Line Options

```sh
golangci-lint run -h
{.RunHelpText}
```

When the `--cpu-profile-path` or `--mem-profile-path` arguments are specified, `golangci-lint` writes runtime profiling data
in the format expected by the [pprof](https://github.com/google/pprof) visualization tool.

When the `--trace-path` argument is specified, `golangci-lint` writes runtime tracing data in the format expected by
the `go tool trace` command and visualization tool.

## Cache

GolangCI-Lint stores its cache in the [default user cache directory](https://golang.org/pkg/os/#UserCacheDir).

You can override the default cache directory with the environment variable `GOLANGCI_LINT_CACHE`; the path must be absolute.
