docs/src/docs/usage/false-positives.mdx, before:

---
title: False Positives
---

False positives are inevitable, but we did our best to reduce their count.
For example, we have a default enabled set of [exclude patterns](/usage/configuration#command-line-options).

If a false positive occurred, you have the several choices.

## Specific Linter Excludes

Most of the linters has a configuration, sometimes false-positives can be related to a bad configuration of a linter.
So it's recommended to check the linters configuration.

Otherwise, some linters have dedicated configuration to exclude or disable rules.

An example with `staticcheck`:

```yml
linters-settings:
  staticcheck:
    checks:
      - all
      - '-SA1000' # disable the rule SA1000
      - '-SA1004' # disable the rule SA1004
```

## Exclude or Skip

### Exclude Issue by Text

Exclude issue by text using command-line option `-e` or config option `issues.exclude`.
It's helpful when you decided to ignore all issues of this type.
Also, you can use `issues.exclude-rules` config option for per-path or per-linter configuration.

In the following example, all the reports that contains the sentences defined in `exclude` are excluded:

```yml
issues:
  exclude:
    - "Error return value of .((os\\.)?std(out|err)\\..*|.*Close|.*Flush|os\\.Remove(All)?|.*printf?|os\\.(Un)?Setenv). is not checked"
    - "exported (type|method|function) (.+) should have comment or be unexported"
    - "ST1000: at least one file in a package should have a package comment"
```

In the following example, all the reports from the linters (`linters`) that contains the text (`text`) are excluded:

```yml
issues:
  exclude-rules:
    - linters:
        - gomnd
      text: "mnd: Magic number: 9"
```

In the following example, all the reports that contains the text (`text`) in the path (`path`) are excluded:

```yml
issues:
  exclude-rules:
    - path: path/to/a/file.go
      text: "string `example` has (\\d+) occurrences, make it a constant"
```

### Exclude Issues by Path

Exclude issues in path by `run.skip-dirs`, `run.skip-files` or `issues.exclude-rules` config options.

Beware that the paths that get matched here are relative to the current working directory.
When the configuration contains path patterns that check for specific directories,
the `--path-prefix` parameter can be used to extend the paths before matching.

In the following example, all the reports from the linters (`linters`) that concerns the path (`path`) are excluded:

```yml
issues:
  exclude-rules:
    - path: '(.+)_test\.go'
      linters:
        - funlen
        - goconst
```

In the following example, all the reports related to the files (`skip-files`) are excluded:

```yml
run:
  skip-files:
    - path/to/a/file.go
```

In the following example, all the reports related to the directories (`skip-dirs`) are excluded:

```yml
run:
  skip-dirs:
    - path/to/a/dir/
```

## Nolint Directive

To exclude issues from all linters use `//nolint:all`.
For example, if it's used inline (not from the beginning of the line) it excludes issues only for this line.

```go
var bad_name int //nolint:all
```

To exclude issues from specific linters only:

```go
var bad_name int //nolint:golint,unused
```

To exclude issues for the block of code use this directive on the beginning of a line:

```go
//nolint:all
func allIssuesInThisFunctionAreExcluded() *string {
  // ...
}

//nolint:govet
var (
  a int
  b int
)
```

Also, you can exclude all issues in a file by:

```go
//nolint:unparam
package pkg
```

You may add a comment explaining or justifying why `//nolint` is being used on the same line as the flag itself:

```go
//nolint:gocyclo // This legacy function is complex but the team too busy to simplify it
func someLegacyFunction() *string {
  // ...
}
```

You can see more examples of using `//nolint` in [our tests](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/tree/master/pkg/result/processors/testdata) for it.

Use `//nolint` instead of `// nolint` because machine-readable comments should have no space by Go convention.

## Default Exclusions

Some exclusions are considered as common, to help golangci-lint users those common exclusions are used as default exclusions.

If you don't want to use it you can set `issues.exclude-use-default` to `false`.
{.DefaultExclusions}

Commit message:

rules: support inverted path match (#3617)

docs/src/docs/usage/false-positives.mdx, after:

---
title: False Positives
---

False positives are inevitable, but we did our best to reduce their count.
For example, we have a default enabled set of [exclude patterns](/usage/configuration#command-line-options).

If a false positive occurred, you have the several choices.

## Specific Linter Excludes

Most of the linters has a configuration, sometimes false-positives can be related to a bad configuration of a linter.
So it's recommended to check the linters configuration.

Otherwise, some linters have dedicated configuration to exclude or disable rules.

An example with `staticcheck`:

```yml
linters-settings:
  staticcheck:
    checks:
      - all
      - '-SA1000' # disable the rule SA1000
      - '-SA1004' # disable the rule SA1004
```

## Exclude or Skip

### Exclude Issue by Text

Exclude issue by text using command-line option `-e` or config option `issues.exclude`.
It's helpful when you decided to ignore all issues of this type.
Also, you can use `issues.exclude-rules` config option for per-path or per-linter configuration.

In the following example, all the reports that contains the sentences defined in `exclude` are excluded:

```yml
issues:
  exclude:
    - "Error return value of .((os\\.)?std(out|err)\\..*|.*Close|.*Flush|os\\.Remove(All)?|.*printf?|os\\.(Un)?Setenv). is not checked"
    - "exported (type|method|function) (.+) should have comment or be unexported"
    - "ST1000: at least one file in a package should have a package comment"
```

In the following example, all the reports from the linters (`linters`) that contains the text (`text`) are excluded:

```yml
issues:
  exclude-rules:
    - linters:
        - gomnd
      text: "mnd: Magic number: 9"
```

In the following example, all the reports that contains the text (`text`) in the path (`path`) are excluded:

```yml
issues:
  exclude-rules:
    - path: path/to/a/file.go
      text: "string `example` has (\\d+) occurrences, make it a constant"
```

### Exclude Issues by Path

Exclude issues in path by `run.skip-dirs`, `run.skip-files` or `issues.exclude-rules` config options.

Beware that the paths that get matched here are relative to the current working directory.
When the configuration contains path patterns that check for specific directories,
the `--path-prefix` parameter can be used to extend the paths before matching.

In the following example, all the reports from the linters (`linters`) that concerns the path (`path`) are excluded:

```yml
issues:
  exclude-rules:
    - path: '(.+)_test\.go'
      linters:
        - funlen
        - goconst
```

The opposite, excluding reports **except** for specific paths, is also possible.
In the following example, only test files get checked:

```yml
issues:
  exclude-rules:
    - path-except: '(.+)_test\.go'
      linters:
        - funlen
        - goconst
```

In the following example, all the reports related to the files (`skip-files`) are excluded:

```yml
run:
  skip-files:
    - path/to/a/file.go
```

In the following example, all the reports related to the directories (`skip-dirs`) are excluded:

```yml
run:
  skip-dirs:
    - path/to/a/dir/
```

## Nolint Directive

To exclude issues from all linters use `//nolint:all`.
For example, if it's used inline (not from the beginning of the line) it excludes issues only for this line.

```go
var bad_name int //nolint:all
```

To exclude issues from specific linters only:

```go
var bad_name int //nolint:golint,unused
```

To exclude issues for the block of code use this directive on the beginning of a line:

```go
//nolint:all
func allIssuesInThisFunctionAreExcluded() *string {
  // ...
}

//nolint:govet
var (
  a int
  b int
)
```

Also, you can exclude all issues in a file by:

```go
//nolint:unparam
package pkg
```

You may add a comment explaining or justifying why `//nolint` is being used on the same line as the flag itself:

```go
//nolint:gocyclo // This legacy function is complex but the team too busy to simplify it
func someLegacyFunction() *string {
  // ...
}
```

You can see more examples of using `//nolint` in [our tests](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/tree/master/pkg/result/processors/testdata) for it.

Use `//nolint` instead of `// nolint` because machine-readable comments should have no space by Go convention.

## Default Exclusions

Some exclusions are considered as common, to help golangci-lint users those common exclusions are used as default exclusions.

If you don't want to use it you can set `issues.exclude-use-default` to `false`.
{.DefaultExclusions}
